# Release Notes (before 3.x)

### Version 2.0.2 (1/27/2014)
* There was a bug related to the rule-based post-processing of dependency parsing for English. This is fixed now.

### Version 2.0.1 (11/28/2013)
* There were some errors in the training data for the general models, which caused to produce too many unclassified dependencies. All general models are updated (see [how to add models](getting_started/add_models.md)).
* Constructors are added to [EnglishMPAnalyzer](https://github.com/clearnlp/clearnlp/blob/master/src/main/java/com/clearnlp/component/morph/EnglishMPAnalyzer.java) and [EnglishTokenizer](https://github.com/clearnlp/clearnlp/blob/master/src/main/java/com/clearnlp/tokenization/EnglishTokenizer.java); they can accept the dictionary file as an InputStream.
* There was a bug in semantic role labeler causing a null point exception (see [post](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/clearnlp/yNfnJyc68mM)). This is fixed now.

### Version 2.0.0 (11/14/2013)
* The official site is moved from Google Code to Wikispaces. You can simply type [clearnlp.com](http://clearnlp.com/) on your browser to access the webpage.
* All repositories are moved from Google Code to Github.
* This version is developed on Java 7.
* The top level package name is changed from `com.googlecode.clearnlp` to `com.clearnlp`.
* All NLP components are now thread-safe (see [demo](demo/clearnlp_demo.md)).
* All models including our dictionary can be retrieved from the [Maven central](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Ccom.clearnlp) (see [how to add models](getting_started/add_models.md)). These models take almost 50% less memory than before during decoding without compromising accuracy.
* The POS tagger now performs morphological analysis simultaneously. If you are using both the POS tagger and the morphological analyzer, you can take out morphological analysis from your pipeline (see [demo](demo/clearnlp_demo.md)).
* The morphological analyzer covers much more token types than before.
* Bugfixes:
	* The morphological analyzer did not lemmatize some plural nouns correctly.
	* The sentence segmenter did not process the very last sentence unless there was a period.

### Version 1.4.2 (08/02/2013)

* Our dependency parser can give multiple parse output given a sentence.
* Predicate argument structures generated by our semantic role labeler now matches the information in the PropBank frameset files.  You need to download new SRL models for this change.  You can download the new SRL models.
* In `DEPNode`, semantic arcs used to be represented as a list of `DEPArc`, which is now represented as a list of `SRLArc`, where `SRLArc` is a sub-class of `DEPArc`.  This is done because semantic arcs require more fields than syntactic arcs.
* Semantic arcs representing numbered arguments now carry function tags if they exist.  For instance, `ARG1` of the verb predicate "leave", which is "a place left", now carries a function tag `DIR`.  These function tags can be retrieved by using the `SRLArc.getFunctionTag()` method.

### Version 1.4.1 (07/21/2013)

* Fixed bugs caused by missing dependent links after post-processing.
* Fixed bugs caused by cyclic relations in semantic role labeler.

### Version 1.4.0 (07/15/2013)

* Added slf4j and fastutil libraries.
* Weight vectors in statistical models are saved as binary objects, which makes model loading much faster.
* The dependency parsing model in this version is about 6 times bigger than the one from the previous version, but it is loading much faster.
* Usernames such as "jinho.choi" are no longer tokenized (used to be tokenized to ;"jinho", ".", "choi").
* Non UTF-8 characters such as Microsoft smart quotes are converted to their alternative UTF-8 characters.
* The POS tagger can adapt predefined pos tags.
* The morphological analyzer uses more commonly used lemmas (e.g., `pass -> pas`, `datum -> data`, `i -> I`).
* The dependency parsing model uses selectional branching, which gives about 1% higher accuracy and takes about 9ms per sentence to parse.
* The semantic role labeler guarantees only one numbered argument type per predicate. 
* The dependency convertor takes more account into semantics, using PropBank.

### Version 1.3.1 (02/26/2013)

* The VerbNet classifier is added.
* The dictionary file is updated.
* Bug fixes on the English tokenizer for Windows platforms.

### Version 1.3.0 (12/29/2012)

* All components using statistical models are now inherited from AbstractComponent.
* All statistical models have been updated; they are slimmer and more accurate.
* Roleset identification is added to semantic role labeling.

### Version 1.2.1 (10/29/2012)

* Minor bugfixes on the Tokenizer (e.g., U.S.$).

### Version 1.2.0 (10/29/2012)

* Reported bugs for the tokenizer are fixed.
* Engine getters support InputStream due to a request.
* The predicate identifier is added.
* The semantic role labeler is added.
* A new dictionary file is added.

### Version 1.1.0 (10/16/2012)

* There are many changes in APIs and pre-defined models.
* The tokenizer and the sentence segmenter are added.

### Version 1.0.0 (9/8/2012)

* The constituent to dependency converter is added.
* The part-of-speech tagger is added.
* The morphological analyzer is added.
* The dependency parser is added.